[WHOOSH]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
[THEME MUSIC]
>>EMERY SMITH: Today
on "Cosmic Disclosure,"
we're with Richard Doty,
a retired special agent
who served in the
Air Force Office
of Special Investigations.
Richard was intimately
involved with UFO
ET-related intelligence.
Today, we are discussing
the Stallion Range incident.
Richard, welcome to the show.
>>RICHARD DOTY:
Thank you, Emery.
Good to be here.
>>EMERY: So where is
the Stallion Range,
and what exactly happened there?
>>DOTY: Stallion Range
is an Air Force radar
site located in the northern
part of White Sands test
range in New Mexico.
It's about 35 miles southeast
of Socorro, New Mexico.
Stallion Range was
at that time in 1982
a top-secret radar facility.
It was used to track
high-altitude objects
in space objects.
It also contained a laser, a
very highly classified laser
that the National Security
Administration used.
When Soviet satellites-- now,
this isn't still classified,
Emery.
But as Soviet satellites
passed overhead in the '80s,
there would be a laser fired
up from Stallion Range,
following that Soviet
satellite and blinding it
so the Soviet
satellites, they weren't
able to photograph anything on
the ground in a certain area.
And that's what it was located.
And in fact, still located
there at Stallion Range.
>>EMERY: Now, what
incident happened
were there was a
craft that landed
near this laser, this building?
>>DOTY: Well, the
radar facility tracked
an aircraft or unidentified
aircraft flying in
from the west.
The aircraft was coming
in toward Stallion Range.
There was two radar
technicians out working
on a radar some distance away.
As they started driving
back towards their home base
facility at Stallion Complex,
they observed a UFO land.
The UFO landed in a field
south of the complex,
but near the laser facility,
which was guarded by Air Force
security.
>>EMERY: How far away
was it from the facility
and from the complex?
>>DOTY: It was
probably 600, 700 feet.
>>EMERY: That's very close.
>>DOTY: Yes.
Very close to the perimeter.
>>EMERY: And it was witnessed
by these two technicians.
>>DOTY: These two
technicians witnessed it,
and they saw two entities
getting out of this UFO
and approaching their vehicle.
So the two Air Force personnel,
these radar technicians,
were Air Force, a
technical sergeant
and the staff sergeant.
They got out of their vehicles
and approached these two
entities as they were
walking towards them.
The entities tried
to communicate.
They spoke in a language
that the technicians
didn't understand.
It was really very
high-pitched shrilling
language, which was
very difficult for them
to even listen to.
And then since we--
the two technicians
weren't able to communicate
with their language,
the two technicians
started speaking English.
The two entities didn't
appear to understand
anything that was being said
by these two technicians.
Then the entities started making
hand gestures, hand signals
towards the two technicians.
And it appeared to
the two technicians
that these two
entities were trying
to get them to come onto the
craft, because at one point,
one of the entities pointed
to their craft and motioned
as if to ask them
or maybe even order
them to come onto the craft.
This scared the two technicians.
Then one of the entities then
approached the two sergeants
very close, within a few
feet, took out an object,
and handed it to them.
That object was a long,
tube-shaped object.
The one technical sergeant
grabbed the object,
looked at it, and then
immediately placed it
on the ground,
fearing that it might
be a weapon or radioactive.
This scared the two technicians.
And at that point,
they moved back
in towards the security complex.
Once they got towards
the security complex,
two Air Force
security policemen,
armed with a handgun on
their side and an M16 rifle,
came out.
And they approached-- these
two security policemen
approached these two entities.
And at this time, it appeared--
I think the entities
then appeared
to realize that these
two men approaching them,
humans, were armed.
So they turned around and
went back to their spacecraft.
>>EMERY: Did they leave
their device there?
>>DOTY: The device was
left on the ground.
Yes, the device was left there.
The two entities got in the
spacecraft through steps,
got up inside the bottom
part of this spacecraft.
And then a few seconds later,
the spacecraft took off.
>>EMERY: What did the
spacecraft look like?
>>DOTY: It was a round shape,
circular-shaped spacecraft,
typical flying saucer-shaped.
Had a dome on top and
a dome on the bottom.
The bottom part
of the dome opened
and steps came down,
came out to the ground.
And that's how the entities
exited the aircraft
and then re-entered
the aircraft.
And after they
re-entered the aircraft,
the bottom part of the dome
closed and kind of raised
a little bit, and then left.
Now, interesting.
None of the-- either
the technicians, the two
technicians or the two
security forces personnel,
they didn't see any struts
or any landing gear.
And they couldn't figure out--
and this is something that was
discussed with me when
I debriefed them later--
was how this thing was just
hovering there, hovering
on the ground, because there
was no struts that came out
or any type of landing gear.
So after it left, then
these two technicians
reported it to
their supervisors.
They then contacted--
the closest base
was Kirtland Air Force Base.
Stallion Range was a small radar
site manned by about 80 people.
They didn't have any
intelligence personnel there.
We serviced that location.
OSI from Kirtland would
service that location.
We were immediately
notified of the incident.
And the Explosive
Ordnance Disposal team
from the US Air
Force at Kirtland
was notified to come down
to get this object, which
nobody knew what it was.
Some of the people at
the scene suspected
it was some sort
of a translator,
but that wasn't
determined until later.
Anyways, EOD came, picked
it up, transported it back
to the base.
The two men were
then transported
to Kirtland Air Force Base.
They were medically examined.
All four of them were
medically examined, determine
whether they were exposed to any
kind of radiation or anything
else, whether they
were hurt in any way.
And they passed the
medical examination,
and there wasn't any
radiation detected on them.
They also, I believe,
took blood from them.
And then I interviewed them.
And during the interview,
they explained to me
what I just told you,
that they were out there,
working on a radar site.
They heard on their radio,
their two-way radios,
that something was
coming in from the west.
And as they were driving on
a road towards their home
complex, they saw it
through the windshield.
They saw something coming in.
And according to the
radio, the controllers
inside were telling them that
this wasn't a known aircraft.
They tried to communicate
with the aircraft using
different radio frequencies,
FAA frequencies,
and the craft didn't respond.
And plus, of course,
they used the IFN system,
the Identification
for Info Neutral,
and realized it
wasn't communicating
in any of the right,
proper frequencies.
So therefore, they
considered something other
than a commercial plane
or a military plane.
>>EMERY: But they
didn't attack it.
We didn't start attacking it
with ground-to-air missiles
or had scrambled jets.
I mean, once they saw that
coming in on the radar,
why didn't they
initiate protocol?
>>DOTY: Well, they did.
They did initiate protocol.
The closest Air Force base
with fighters was at Kirtland,
and they had A-7Ds on alert.
And they did scramble two A-7Ds.
But the incident occurred--
the whole incident
occurred probably
within a 20-minute time frame.
So by the time the jets got
there, the craft was gone.
It exited-- the radar operator
that I spoke with later
inside the building, that
didn't actually come out
but was inside the
building, tracked it.
And it was recorded on
radar, as they record them.
And the craft went from a few
thousand feet to 70,000 feet
within a short time frame,
which they immediately
knew that wasn't a--
it wasn't a conventional craft.
It wasn't an Air Force plane.
This radar technician told
me, I've tracked SR-71s.
I've tracked U2 spy planes.
I've tracked other aircrafts,
and even some that probably
are still in the experimental
stage that flew from Area 51
down to White Sands for
testing, and nothing--
I've never seen anything fly
that fast and disappear off
radar that quick.
>>EMERY: What did
the four soldiers
explain to you of the details of
what these beings looked like?
>>DOTY: The two technicians
advise that these entities
were about four feet tall.
They were wearing a helmet.
But they had some kind of a
voice box or something that
was amplifying their speech.
And their speech, according to
the technicians, was shrilling.
It was almost like somebody had
increased the sound of metal
hitting metal.
And it was a shrilling--
which, they had to
cover their ears.
It was hurting them.
And when they were
covering their ears,
it appeared to them
that the entities
realized that their
voice was hurting them.
So the voice, the tone of the
voice and volume of the voice
went down somewhat,
but it was still
almost unbearable to listen to.
And when the technicians
were speaking in English,
the entities looked at each
other as if not understanding
anything that was being said,
or couldn't-- maybe even
comprehending that these
humans were speaking.
According to the technician,
the senior technician
there, the tech
sergeant, he said,
it was like when we
spoke, they were confused.
And maybe our voice
maybe hurt them
like their voice hurt ours.
They were in a
tight-fitting uniform,
and they had really
heavy, thick boots on.
And they had mittens.
They had some kind
of mittens on,
because they couldn't
see their fingers.
Now, either that was their
hands or they had something on
to cover their hands up.
They could move their hands
similar to like we did.
They had joints, because
they were making hand signals
to the technicians.
And they were motioning
with their hands.
So their abilities to move
their arms and shoulders
were similar to ours.
>>EMERY: Now, you've mentioned
these types of beings and craft
before in other "Cosmic
Disclosure" episodes.
Is there any correlation
that you guys came up with,
why these beings are
showing up at these bases
with all this technology
and nuclear activity?
>>DOTY: That's a very
interesting question,
because we did.
We did analysis.
I didn't actually
do the analysis,
but other people within
the intelligence community
did the analysis.
And of course, we realized
that this event occurred,
and there had been
other events earlier.
And then we, of course, had
events that happened later
with this same type of entity,
the same type of ET dressed
in almost identical outfits.
Then our analysts
tried to determine
whether these entities were
the same entities that occurred
previously, and even some
that I didn't know about
that I was informed
of later on that
had happened in the
mid '70s before I
had gotten into intelligence.
They came to the conclusion
that it is the same ET
race that are visiting bases.
And they're primarily
visiting military bases.
Army, Air Force, and
even some Navy bases.
And why they're doing
this, maybe it's
trying to make
contact in some way.
But again, we can't get in the
head of an extraterrestrial,
so it's very difficult
to try to figure out
what their train of thought
is or what they're thinking
or what their reason is
for visiting these bases.
>>EMERY: Maybe just
reconnaissance too?
And one of the
things you mentioned
is sometimes they don't
land right on the base,
but near the base.
Like, this is a landing that's
actually not on the base.
It's near a radar laser device.
>>DOTY: Right.
Stallion Range is
about five miles south
of the main road,
which is US 380.
And the Air Force security
gate is about three miles
from the complex.
But there's no fences.
The only fences
around that area is
the fence around the radar
complex and the laser complex
facility.
They call it a long-range
RASER complex, as abbreviated.
And that's about half a mile
away from the main controlment
area of the base
of the radar site.
But there's no fences, so
it's possible for people
to come in and walk in.
But this craft landed really
close to the laser facility,
a few hundred feet
away, which would
have put up the red flag,
because that complex is
a Priority A resource.
In the United States Air
Force, Priority A resources
is guarded with deadly force.
These Air Force security
policemen in there
had M16 rifles of full
loads and a handgun--
I believe a .38 revolver--
and they were guarding that
facility with deadly force,
meaning if you tried to
get in to that facility,
they could use deadly force.
They would challenge
you and then shoot you,
and that's the way the military
operates in a Priority A
complex.
>>EMERY: Now speaking
of this laser,
you said it was there to
blind the Soviet satellites.
Was there any other
abilities the laser had?
>>DOTY: Ironically,
they had just
installed this newer laser.
I think it was within the
last three months or something
like that.
I don't know the
exact time frame.
But the older laser
only did certain things.
They could just point
it in one direction.
And the newer laser system there
in 1982 that they installed
could do more.
It could function in
different manners.
And one of the things it
could do is project an image.
And so they could send this--
shoot this laser up
with an image somehow--
I don't know how it
actually operated--
against the lens of
the Soviet satellite
and project an image
of what we wanted
the Soviets to see as the Soviet
satellite was passing over.
And I'm sure they did it
with maybe other country's
satellites too.
But that was one of
the operational feats
that it could do.
>>EMERY: Is it possible,
Rick, that this laser being
so powerful-- you know, we
use these out in the field all
the time to attract craft--
that was maybe a
beacon for them?
Maybe they saw this
laser and said,
hey, let's go follow this laser,
see where it's coming from.
>>DOTY: That was the thought
of several scientists
and several of the analysts
that looked into this case,
was that this might have been
some form of a beacon sending
out in space,
because a laser can
travel an infinite
direction, especially out
of the atmosphere.
And so they thought that maybe
we were sending a message out
somehow to the ETs out there
that are flying around.
What you're got to
understand about 1982,
laser technology was really
just on the drawing boards.
The military had some very
highly classified projects,
both with light lasers
and then chemical lasers.
And Kirtland Air
Force Base was a base
that was experimenting with
airborne laser, aircraft
with a laser inside, and they
were flying that and testing it
down at White Sands.
This ground-based laser
was new, was something--
as I said earlier, the newer
system had just came out.
So they were constantly
developing the laser.
Now, one of the
scientists told me,
these lasers are not easy to
control when they shoot them
out there with high intensity.
And so it's very
possible that we were
sending a beacon out in space.
And this happened before.
This happened at
Kirtland Air Force Base.
They had one at
Kirtland Air Force Base
about 80 miles away
out in Coyote Canyon.
And the incident
in Coyote Canyon
occurred, and we were
probably doing the same thing.
And unbeknownst to us,
that we were attracting
the extraterrestrials.
>>EMERY: Were the
extraterrestrials ever--
did they ever come
across that they
were being violent or
threatening to the airmen
and soldiers?
>>DOTY: No.
The tech sergeant and staff
sergeant and the two security
police personnel
never felt threatened.
They were scared.
They were concerned
because they'd never
seen these entities before.
Of course, they were
somewhat scared.
Especially the
radar technicians.
They didn't have
the same training
as a security forces person had,
and they didn't have weapons.
When the security
personnel came out,
one of the security
policemen told me
that it shook him
up pretty much.
But he realized he had a mission
to do, and he had to protect.
They never pointed
their weapons--
they never took their
M16s off their shoulders,
and they never
drew their weapon--
their handgun out of their
holster, because they
didn't feel threatened.
Now I asked him, well,
what if you were there
when they were
bringing this tube out?
And one of them said, I
probably would have drawn
my side arm, my .38 revolver.
And who knows what would have
happened if that happened,
that incident occurred?
But it didn't, and they
didn't feel threatened.
>>EMERY: Isn't there
some sort of protocol
that the Air Force security has
if an extraterrestrial craft
were to land, if beings
were to come out?
>>DOTY: Yes, there is
protocol, but not for ETs.
There's protocol for intruders.
I mean, it was contained
in an Air Force regulation.
I believe it was 207-1.
I can remember, because that was
a question that was brought up
during an after briefing.
A critical incident
review, they called it.
The security forces
did this, and I
happened to be invited to this.
And one of the questions I
asked was, do you have protocol?
Do you have policy
and procedures
that if this happened?
And the senior NCO in the room--
I believe he was a
chief master sergeant,
a highest ranking
enlisted person--
he said, in SAC bases, around
nuclear weapons sites, we do.
But this wasn't a
nuclear weapons site.
This was not a SAC base.
And the security policemen
weren't in the room.
Those two weren't
in this room when
we were doing this
after-incident critical
briefing.
They had never been briefed,
and they didn't have
the security clearance for it.
We never thought anything
like that would happen.
But I said, so you
do have a procedure.
And he kind of looked at his--
I believe it was a captain--
maybe even a major in the room.
Oh, no.
It was a major.
And he said, yes, we do.
I said, it's classified?
He said, yes, it's classified.
We do have a document--
it's an annex to--
and he gave me the
Air Force Reg 207-1.
He said, but it's classified.
That's one of the
few documents that we
keep that are classified.
But he said, that
only pertains to SAC
bases and nuclear weapons
storage facilities.
I said, well, you might want
to start briefing these airport
security policemen
guarding these radar sites.
He said, your
recommendation will
be taken into consideration.
So I never actually
saw the document.
I know one exists.
>>EMERY: Yeah, I'm
quite fascinated
by the soldiers
with the weapons not
having a knee-jerk reaction
to immediately attack.
Why is that?
>>DOTY: Well, that
was my question,
because security
police personnel--
if this was a human, an intruder
approaching that facility,
they would have
operated differently.
And I asked one of the
security policemen.
I said, if this was a
person rushing your facility
with a gun, a
handgun, or a rifle,
wouldn't you have
operated differently?
He said, absolutely.
We would have challenged them.
And if they kept coming,
if they came within--
I think it was a
five-foot or seven--
something.
There's a particular zone.
If they enter that
zone towards the fence,
they were authorized
to use deadly force.
And he told me, if they got
within that particular zone,
we would have shot them.
We would have notified the
command center and tell them,
you know, we've got an intruder.
And most of the
time these things
happened so quick when
there was actually
a human approaching that
we wouldn't have even time
to call on the radio.
We'd just shoot them, and
then we'd notify them, hey,
we just shot a person.
So I ask him, I
said, well, when you
saw these entities,
these extraterrestrials,
I mean, what was the first
thing you thought of?
He said, well,
somehow we felt calm.
And when they told me that, I
didn't go in any more details.
I said, you felt calm?
He said, yeah.
We just didn't feel that
they were a threat to us.
So then later on
when I did my report,
I mentioned these psychological
or physiological things, traits
that were mentioned to me.
And I'm not a
psychologist, but it
got to one of ours
who then came to me.
Said, we need to sit down
and talk to these people,
because it looks to me, it looks
like the psychologist that we
used-- he's a hypnotist too--
looks to me like these
ETs put some kind
of a spell or something on
these people to relax them.
Not necessarily change them
in any way, but something
that they could project
onto a human that
made the human relax.
I'm not a threat to you.
Please don't use your
weapon towards me.
I'm here as a friend or
we're here as a visitor.
Something to that respect.
>>EMERY: It could be emitting
some calming frequency
and they were picking up on
this and were completely relaxed
with the situation.
Plus, it's kind of like a rabid
dog coming at you, you know?
And then a dog coming, wiggling
its tail, and you feel calm.
>>DOTY: That's very possible.
Now, the two security
personnel-- and I
believe the other two were
examined by this psychologist.
I wasn't there at the time.
He did his own report, so I
don't know what was ever--
but the consensus later
was that these ETs
were able to relax the humans.
Because all four of them
said the same thing.
We immediately felt that these
two entities weren't hostile,
and we weren't
threatened by them.
They seemed to be very friendly.
Except when they
brought out this object,
which they thought at
first was a weapon.
But at that point, the
security people weren't there.
They were still inside.
But when the tech sergeant
grabbed it and then placed it
on the ground,
then they realized,
ah, we need to get some help.
And that's when they went
back towards the gate,
and that's when the
security forces came out.
So did the ETs have
the ability to change
the frequencies of the human?
They were so advanced,
they may have
some other type of abilities
that we just don't know,
because this has happened other
times before and then later on.
The same feeling
came over humans that
were in contact with these ETs.
>>EMERY: You spoke
of the linguistics
that neither one could
really on both sides
understand each other.
But were there any reports from
the soldiers or the technicians
that maybe telepathy was used
or anything emotional was felt?
>>DOTY: That was a
question that I didn't ask,
but the psychiatrist
inquired about,
whether they'd felt
or heard anything
in their heads such as
a telepathic message.
And as far as I
know, there wasn't
any type of telepathic message.
But I never actually
asked either one of the--
any of the four
technicians that question.
It was brought up later.
>>EMERY: Now, you told us they
received this cylindrical item.
Metal was passed off from
the ETs to the technicians,
and then it was taken
to Kirtland Air Force
Base where they did an
evaluation and testing on it.
What did they come up with?
>>DOTY: Explosive Ordnance
Disposal specialists came.
They checked it for radiation.
They checked it for any kind
of weapons or explosives.
They didn't feel it was
any kind of weapons system.
They placed it in a container.
They transported it
back to Kirtland.
They the EOD did some
more tests on it,
just to rule out whether
it could be something
hid-- any radioactivity,
gamma source, beta source,
any of that.
And they ruled anything out.
The EOD brought it
over to our office.
It was in a box.
And they said, here.
And so we said, OK.
>>EMERY: So you
personally saw it?
>>DOTY: I personally saw it.
Yeah.
>>EMERY: And explain
it in more detail.
>>DOTY: OK.
It's about 20-some inches long.
Inside was some sort of a
crystal or something inside.
When you spoke,
the crystal moved.
We, myself, and
several other agents,
one of our technical
agents came in.
And you know, he was
trying to figure it out.
It was made of some metal.
It was a brassy, colored metal.
I'm saying metal, or material.
The only thing that moved--
the only kind of a source,
electrical source or anything
is this little rock or crystal.
>>EMERY: And it would vibrate.
>>DOTY: Yeah, it vibrated.
One of the scientists came
over to my office and sat down.
He said, it's a fascinating--
he said, what it
is is a translator.
But it has to be
activated by the ET voice,
and it's only going to
translate from the ET
into maybe English
or other languages.
Because he said, we
couldn't get it to work.
We tried everything.
We try to make
any type of noise,
squeaking sound that
we could into it.
The little crystal moved,
but there was nothing
coming out the other end.
>>EMERY: Why would
they speculate
that it's a translator?
Was there some other
intel they had?
>>DOTY: Yes.
In fact, the colonel
told me out of the blue,
not in the report that
I got but on the phone,
he said, it's similar to some
other items that we have here.
Well, of course, that
perked my interest.
I said, you have
other customers.
He said, we have many other
customers bringing us gifts.
And so I assumed he meant
other intelligence officers.
I mean, I wasn't the only
one doing what I was doing.
There's 100-- there were 119--
122 of us in the United
States or around the world
that were doing exactly
the same thing I was doing.
And there were other
people within New Mexico
doing the same thing.
We had Holloman Air Force Base.
We had one of my
colleagues there.
And we had Cannon Air Force
Base, and one of my colleagues
there was doing the exact
same thing I was doing.
And we didn't always share--
I wish we had have.
So I knew then that
it wasn't something
that Los Alamos-- it
wasn't the first time they
had seen something like that.
>>EMERY: Do we
have any idea where
this extraterrestrial
craft originated from
and these beings?
>>DOTY: Well, I'm not
briefed into everything.
I do the report.
I collected the radar
tapes, sent everything
to our headquarters.
And the consensus--
I didn't learn it right then.
I learned it sometime
later on another case--
was that this craft
were somehow--
and these ETs were somehow
related to the Ebens,
but they weren't Ebens.
They were either some
offshoot of the Ebens
or they were some--
maybe something
that were created by the
Ebens, which we knew occurred.
We knew that the Ebens had--
they created some humanoid
or robot/humanoid entities
that were responsible
for some abductions.
And they suspected
that they were somehow
connected to the Ebens.
And if that's the
case, then the craft
would have came from Zeta
Reticuli, a star system.
>>EMERY: Well, Rick, you're
so knowledgeable on a lot
of stuff.
I mean, being an
officer in there
and having all these amazing
recollections and stories.
I really appreciate
you being on the show.
>>DOTY: Thank you.
Good to be here.
>>EMERY: I'm Emery Smith, and
this is "Cosmic Disclosure."
Until next time.
[THEME MUSIC]